Transition from Dr. Miller to Dr. Sampson, correct me if I'm wrong, Dr. Sampson was president about a year, interim president.
About a year and a half.
A year and a half.
And were there any major changes in the way the university was governed, led, administered during that time?
No, let me revise.
I think it was just a little over a year to correct what I said.
No, there was a certain feeling of tentativeness about the situation because it wasn't known if he was going to be the permanent president.
Then it was announced that there was a search committee appointed and that the search committee was large enough to do close order drill.
I mean, there were two dozen people or something like that on it.
And then it became dubious that Dr. Sampson was going to be because of the variety of interests represented on that committee.
But there wasn't any big change in the way the university operated, no.
Then Dr. Vandiver was selected.
Right.
And I think began in the fall of 81.
Fall of 81.
How did you first interact with him?
It was all very pleasant.
I had announced about July of 81 that I was leaving the vice presidency and was going back to research.
And I was going to take half a year or a year and go to Harvard Medical School and do research there.
And so my departure had already been announced.
But he contacted me, very affable, very friendly.
uh... he wanted me to stay on and in fact one time he wanted me to consider coming back as executive vice president and i said no we'll cross that bridge when we come to it but had no intention of doing any such thing uh... my laboratory was in great shape thanks to ms wilkes and ms bayless and um... and dr john baker who was a postdoc with us for a while and so i was eager to get back
to the battlefront.
And Dr. Vandiver and I had very good relations, very good.
So you left the Vice Presidency when?
January of 1982.
I resigned effectively the last day of December of 81.
So I was here one semester.
In fact, I called Dr. Hubert and I said, I had planned to leave here on September 1st to go to Boston.
I said,
Would you like me to stay one semester and help Dr. Vandiver get settled?
He said, I would deem that to be appropriate if you will do it.
So I said, fine.
I moved to Boston when it was snowing.
We got there, it was all clear, and it began to snow.
As soon as we went to the store to get our first provisions, then the snow began to fall right then.
But anyhow, Dr. Vandiver and I had very friendly relations.
All right, look back on all those years, whether you were a research faculty member only, a dean or vice president, what accomplishments give you most pride?
Oh, I don't know.
It's a hard thing to say.
I think that probably my happiest days were when I was dean.
just overall, because my research program still ran pretty well.
And I was able to do some things I wanted to do for the College of Science.
And as I said to a previous question, I think that one of the things was the advancement of research and the broad sweep of things and the faculty recruitment.
And also I think the point you mentioned when we were just chatting a few minutes ago about the student's feeling of closeness to the university.
And I don't know if I had much to do with that, but I certainly tried to encourage it.
So, in hindsight, can you think of anything now you wish that you could have helped accomplish that didn't come about?
Oh, yes, there are probably a number of them, but none comes to mind right now.
All right.
Again, blessed with hindsight.
If you had omnipotence and omniscience, how would you have Texas A&M and the Texas A&M system organized?
Well, if I were omnipotent,
Joel Hildebrand the famous chemist at Berkeley who also taught freshman chemistry was in a was in a confrontation regarding education a few years ago and some professor of education wrote a screed and said something about Hildebrand claimed to be omnipotent and
And Hill ran a road back and said, he means omniscient.
He said, if I were omnipotent, he wouldn't be a professor.
If I were omnipotent, there wouldn't be a system of the Texas A&M University.
The university would stand alone with its own board of regents, would deal directly with the legislature on that basis.
That would be, I think, a great step forward.
Where would the services and stations report?
Somewhere else.
I think that they could be integrated into the system to report to the university and not to the system.
Would they report to the president or to the chief academic officer or the dean?
That's the trickiest question that we've had to deal with all along, and there's no good answer to it.
I think it would have to come up through the dean, but this gives you then two superdeans.
And that's not good either.
So there's no good solution to that problem.
But it's certainly no solution to have them go through the system.
I've always wondered why shouldn't it be appropriate that a faculty member in any department could submit a research proposal to the experiment stations and have a fair chance of getting it funded
or I'll put it on a contract basis.
I'd be totally in favor of that.
It seems like to me that would strengthen everything.
Absolutely, I would be totally in favor of that.
In other words, somebody in physics submits one to the engineering station.
It's judged on its merits and either funded or not.
Somebody in biology sends one to the agricultural experiment station.
I'm very much in favor of that system.
Somebody in history wants to write a history of the Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association.
Fine.
And they decide whether it's worth doing or not?
Okay.
But I don't know any, I don't know whether that's done anywhere.
I don't know of a single institution where that's done.
And as far as I know, this same kind of flagship and system problem exists in a number of places.
Let's see.
All right.
If you could have them all back in person.
Who would you like to thank for their assistance to you?
Oh, gosh.
We're going to run out of tape here.
Well, I'm going to put Ms.
Wilkes and Ms.
Bayless right up at the top because they saved my career.
Dr. Williams, for whom I have high regard.
As a matter of fact, I've saved a lot of notes that he wrote me over the years.
I've got a scrapbook and I've got a bunch of things that he sent me.
uh... doc calhoun and by the way i do thank him from time to time when i see him uh... mr rudder i would certainly put in that category john beckham who was my associate dean for a long time now this is now deceased uh... the uh... many of the beans with whom i served uh...
The people back in my department, Dr. Lyman, Dr. Couch, Howard Vestal, by all means, John Colas.
I'm going to omit too many people because I hadn't thought about this, but scores of people.
That's been the great pleasure of it is the people that I've dealt with.
And I feel like an old line rancher that we knew in West Texas.
He had moved his herd from Del Rio to take up a new ranch at Van Horn.
He got to Alpine, and he got a telegram that there's no water left in the tank, which is the only water.
He said, the people around Alpine took me in, went in our herd, the rains came, we moved on.
He said, doctor, all my life,
It's been my good fortune to associate with high-class people.
Oh, that's good.
That's good.
Okay, next to last question.
Somebody hands you a million-dollar check, and there's only one condition.
You must give it to Texas A&M, but you get to decide what it's to be spent for.
Okay, I'd spend about $900,000 on a lawyer to show me how to sew it up where the regents couldn't do anything with it.
That's good.
What would you do with the rest?
I would probably establish a chair.
Are they going for more than a million now?
I don't know.
Anyhow, I would probably establish a chair or put it in the discretionary fund for, oh, let's say the vice president for academic affairs.
I was really pleased that Mr. Bright gave $25 million and just put it under the President's direction to do.
I thought that was very foresighted.
But I'd say that either flexible money or a chair would be what I would do.
Okay.
Last question.
As you look back, what did it mean to your life to have these years associated with Texas A&M?
Well, it's been a very pleasant life.
There was never a day when I'd be going to work.
Always look forward to it.